.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Robin Getz
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Analog Devices Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this
.\" documentation for any purpose is hereby granted under the
.\" Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International Public License
.\" https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/
.\"
.TH iio_reg 1 "10 May, 2018" "libiio-0.12" "LibIIO Utilities"
.IX iio_reg_
.SH NAME
iio_reg \- do a low level read or write to SPI or I2C register
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B iio_reg
[
.I options
]
<device> <register> [<value>]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B iio_reg
is a utility for debugging local IIO devices.
It should not be used by normal users, and is normally used by driver
developers during development, or by end users debugging a driver, or sending
in a feature request.
It provides a mechanism to read or write SPI or I2C registers for IIO devices.
This can be useful when troubleshooting IIO devices, and understanding how
the Linux IIO subsystem is managing the device.

This IIO utility does not work across a network or USB context.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Tells
.I iio_reg
to display some help, and then quit.
.SH RETURN VALUE
If the specified device is not found, a non-zero exit code is returned.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR iio_adi_xflow_check (1),
.BR iio_attr (1),
.BR iio_genxml (1),
.BR iio_info (1),
.BR iio_readdev (1),
.BR iio_reg (1),
.BR iio_writedev (1),
.BR libiio (3)
.PP
libiio home page:
.BR https://wiki.analog.com/resources/tools-software/linux-software/libiio
.PP
libiio code:
.BR https://github.com/analogdevicesinc/libiio
.PP
Doxygen for libiio
.BR https://analogdevicesinc.github.io/libiio/
.SH BUGS
All bugs are tracked at:
.BR https://github.com/analogdevicesinc/libiio/issues
